ASSIGNMENT_FEATURE.md, before:

# Assignment Filtering Feature

This feature adds intelligent assignment checking to the `submit-files` command, ensuring that only files assigned to the user's address are processed.

## How It Works

1. **Phase 1.5: Assignment Check** - Before file validation begins, the command:
   - Derives the user's wallet address from the provided private key
   - Fetches all assigned CIDs for that address from the blockchain (reusing code from `list-assignments`)
   - Caches the assigned CIDs for efficient checking

2. **File Filtering** - During validation, each file is checked:
   - If the file's `dataGroupCid` is NOT in the assigned CIDs set, it's skipped
   - Skipped files are logged to `submit_warnings.csv` with reason: "File skipped - dataGroupCid {CID} is not assigned to your address"
   - Progress tracking correctly handles skipped files

## Console Output Example

```
🐘 Elephant Network CLI - Submit Files

📁 Phase 1: Discovery
  Scanning files and validating directory structure...
✅ Directory structure valid
   Found 5 files to process

🔗 Phase 1.5: Assignment Check
  Fetching assigned CIDs for your address...
✅ Found 3 assigned CIDs for your address

🔍 Phase 2: Validation
  Validating JSON files against schemas...
⚠️  File skipped - dataGroupCid QmNotAssigned1... is not assigned to your address
⚠️  File skipped - dataGroupCid QmNotAssigned2... is not assigned to your address
✅ Validation complete: 3 valid, 0 invalid

... rest of processing continues with only assigned files
```

## Benefits

- **Efficient Processing**: Only processes files that can actually be submitted
- **Clear Feedback**: Users know exactly why files are skipped
- **Audit Trail**: All skipped files are logged to CSV for review
- **Graceful Degradation**: If assignment fetching fails, processing continues without filtering (with warning)
- **Reuses Existing Code**: Leverages the robust assignment fetching logic from `list-assignments`

## Implementation Details

### New Service: `AssignmentCheckerService`

- Encapsulates assignment fetching logic
- Provides methods: `fetchAssignedCids()`, `isCidAssigned()`, `getAssignedCids()`, `getAssignedCidsCount()`
- Handles errors gracefully and provides detailed logging

### Integration Points

- Added to `submit-files` command as Phase 1.5
- Uses `Wallet` class to derive address from private key
- Integrates with existing CSV reporting for warnings
- Works with existing progress tracking system

### Testing

- Comprehensive unit tests for `AssignmentCheckerService`
- Integration tests updated to mock the new service
- All existing tests continue to pass

Commit message:

feat(submit-files): enable conditional file filtering by assignments

ASSIGNMENT_FEATURE.md, after:

# Assignment Filtering Feature

This feature adds intelligent assignment checking to the `submit-files` command, ensuring that only files assigned to the user's address are processed.

## How It Works

1. **Phase 1.5: Assignment Check** - Before file validation begins, the command:
   - Derives the user's wallet address from the provided private key
   - Fetches all assigned CIDs for that address from the blockchain (reusing code from `list-assignments`)
   - Caches the assigned CIDs for efficient checking

2. **File Filtering** - During validation, each file is checked:
   - **If assignment fetching succeeded**: Files are filtered based on assigned CIDs
     - If no CIDs are assigned (empty set): ALL files are skipped
     - If CIDs are assigned: Only files with matching `dataGroupCid` are processed
   - **If assignment fetching failed**: No filtering is applied (processing continues normally)
   - Skipped files are logged to `submit_warnings.csv` with reason: "File skipped - dataGroupCid {CID} is not assigned to your address"
   - Progress tracking correctly handles skipped files

## Console Output Example

```
🐘 Elephant Network CLI - Submit Files

📁 Phase 1: Discovery
  Scanning files and validating directory structure...
✅ Directory structure valid
   Found 5 files to process

🔗 Phase 1.5: Assignment Check
  Fetching assigned CIDs for your address...
✅ Found 3 assigned CIDs for your address

🔍 Phase 2: Validation
  Validating JSON files against schemas...
⚠️  File skipped - dataGroupCid QmNotAssigned1... is not assigned to your address
⚠️  File skipped - dataGroupCid QmNotAssigned2... is not assigned to your address
✅ Validation complete: 3 valid, 0 invalid

... rest of processing continues with only assigned files
```

## Benefits

- **Efficient Processing**: Only processes files that can actually be submitted
- **Clear Feedback**: Users know exactly why files are skipped
- **Audit Trail**: All skipped files are logged to CSV for review
- **Graceful Degradation**: If assignment fetching fails, processing continues without filtering (with warning)
- **Reuses Existing Code**: Leverages the robust assignment fetching logic from `list-assignments`

## Implementation Details

### New Service: `AssignmentCheckerService`

- Encapsulates assignment fetching logic
- Provides methods: `fetchAssignedCids()`, `isCidAssigned()`, `getAssignedCids()`, `getAssignedCidsCount()`
- Handles errors gracefully and provides detailed logging

### Integration Points

- Added to `submit-files` command as Phase 1.5
- Uses `Wallet` class to derive address from private key
- Integrates with existing CSV reporting for warnings
- Works with existing progress tracking system

### Testing

- Comprehensive unit tests for `AssignmentCheckerService`
- Integration tests updated to mock the new service
- All existing tests continue to pass
