README.md, before:

# Elephant Network CLI

This guide walks Elephant Network oracles through the complete workflow of transforming county data and submitting proofs on-chain using the Elephant CLI.

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Create an Encrypted Keystore](#create-an-encrypted-keystore)
- [Transform Input Requirements](#transform-input-requirements)
- [Build the Seed Bundle](#build-the-seed-bundle)
- [Fetch Current Source Content](#fetch-current-source-content)
- [Generate Transformation Scripts](#generate-transformation-scripts)
- [Produce the County Dataset](#produce-the-county-dataset)
- [Hash the County Dataset](#hash-the-county-dataset)
- [Upload Datagroups to IPFS](#upload-datagroups-to-ipfs)
- [Submit Hashes to the Contract](#submit-hashes-to-the-contract)
- [Utility Commands](#utility-commands)

## Overview

The Elephant CLI enables oracles to:
- Derive canonical seed files from jurisdiction sourcing metadata (`transform`).
- Download the live county response for reproducible processing (`prepare`).
- Generate and execute extraction scripts for county-specific transformations (`generate-transform` and `transform`).
- Canonicalize outputs, upload to IPFS, and record submissions on the Polygon network (`hash`, `upload`, `submit-to-contract`).

Each section below explains what a command does, the inputs it expects, the resulting artifacts, available options, and a runnable example.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.0 or later (includes `npm`).
- Ability to create and extract ZIP archives (`zip`/`unzip`).
- Access to a Polygon RPC endpoint (e.g., Alchemy, Infura, or internal infrastructure).
- Oracle private key to be stored in an encrypted keystore file.
- Pinata JWT (`PINATA_JWT`) for IPFS uploads.
- OpenAI API key (`OPENAI_API_KEY`) for script generation.
- Stable network connection and sufficient disk space for ZIP artifacts.

## Installation

Install once and reuse:

```bash
npm install -g @elephant-xyz/cli
```

Or run ad-hoc without installing globally:

```bash
npx @elephant-xyz/cli --help
```

## Create an Encrypted Keystore

Use `create-keystore` to encrypt your Polygon private key for later use with `submit-to-contract`.

```bash
elephant-cli create-keystore \
  --private-key 0xYOUR_PRIVATE_KEY \
  --password "your-strong-password" \
  --output oracle-keystore.json
```

**What it does**
- Encrypts the supplied private key with the provided password.
- Writes an encrypted JSON keystore to disk and prints the derived address.

**Inputs**
- Private key (with or without `0x`).
- Password (minimum 8 characters).

**Output**
- `oracle-keystore.json` (or the path provided via `--output`).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-k, --private-key <key>` | Private key to encrypt. | Required |
| `-p, --password <password>` | Password used for encryption. | Required |
| `-o, --output <path>` | Destination file for the keystore JSON. | `keystore.json` |
| `-f, --force` | Overwrite the output file if it already exists. | `false` |

## Transform Input Requirements

The first `transform` run produces canonical seed files from a county sourcing list. Supply a ZIP that contains a single `seed.csv` at its top level:

```
seed-input.zip
└── seed.csv
```

`seed.csv` must include the following headers (one property per row):

| Column | Required | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `parcel_id` | ✅ | Parcel identifier used across Elephant datasets. |
| `address` | ✅ | Human-readable street address for logging and fact sheets. |
| `method` | ✅ | HTTP method (`GET` or `POST`). |
| `url` | ✅ | Base URL to request during `prepare`. |
| `multiValueQueryString` | ➖ | JSON string mapping query keys to string arrays (e.g. `{"parcel":["0745"]}`). |
| `source_identifier` | ✅ | Stable identifier for the property request (becomes the file stem in later steps). |
| `county` | ✅ | County name (case-insensitive; transformed to title case). |
| `json` | ➖ | JSON request body (stringified). Mutually exclusive with `body`. |
| `body` | ➖ | Raw request payload string. Mutually exclusive with `json`. |
| `headers` | ➖ | JSON string of HTTP headers (e.g. `{"content-type":"application/json"}`). |

Only one of `json` or `body` may be present in a row. Leave optional columns blank when not needed.

Example row:

```
parcel_id,address,method,url,multiValueQueryString,source_identifier,county,json
074527L1060260060,123 Example Ave,GET,https://county.example.com/search,"{\"parcel\":[\"074527L1060260060\"]}",ALACHUA-074527L1060260060,Alachua,
```

## Build the Seed Bundle

Run `transform` against the seed ZIP to derive the foundational seed files.

```bash
elephant-cli transform \
  --input-zip seed-input.zip \
  --output-zip seed-bundle.zip
```

**What it does**
- Parses `seed.csv` and constructs canonical `property_seed.json`, `unnormalized_address.json`, and relationship scaffolding.
- Generates a seed datagroup JSON (named by the Seed schema CID) and related fact-sheet relationships.
- Packages everything inside a top-level `data/` directory.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `seed.csv` at the root.

**Output**

```
seed-bundle.zip
└── data/
    ├── <seed_schema_cid>.json
    ├── property_seed.json
    ├── relationship_property_to_address.json
    ├── unnormalized_address.json
    └── relationship_unnormalized_address_to_fact_sheet.json
```

For the next step, extract `data/property_seed.json` and `data/unnormalized_address.json` into a new working folder (no subdirectories) and zip them as `prepare-input.zip`.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input-zip <path>` | Seed ZIP containing `seed.csv`. | Required |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for generated seed assets. | `transformed-data.zip` |
| `--scripts-zip <path>` | When provided, runs county scripts instead of seed mode. | None |
| `--legacy-mode` | Use the legacy AI workflow (not used in modern oracle flow). | `false` |

## Fetch Current Source Content

Package the extracted seed files into a ZIP that looks like this:

```
prepare-input.zip
├── property_seed.json
└── unnormalized_address.json
```

Run `prepare` to reproduce the county response referenced by the seed.

```bash
elephant-cli prepare prepare-input.zip --output-zip prepared-site.zip
```

**What it does**
- Reads `source_http_request` from `property_seed.json`.
- Performs the HTTP request (direct fetch by default, optional headless browser for GET endpoints).
- Writes the response to `<request_identifier>.html` or `<request_identifier>.json` alongside the seed files.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `property_seed.json` and `unnormalized_address.json` at the top level.

**Output**

```
prepared-site.zip
├── property_seed.json
├── unnormalized_address.json
└── <request_identifier>.html | <request_identifier>.json
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP containing the fetched response. | Required |
| `--use-browser` | Fetch GET requests with a headless Chromium browser (needed for dynamic sites). | `false` |
| `--no-continue` | Skip auto-clicking "Continue" modals when browser mode is active. | `false` |
| `--no-fast` | Disable the fast browser profile (enables full asset loading). | `false` |

## Generate Transformation Scripts

Provide the prepared site bundle to `generate-transform` to produce county-specific extraction scripts. Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` beforehand.

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-live...
elephant-cli generate-transform prepared-site.zip \
  --output-zip generated-scripts.zip
```

**What it does**
- Runs an LLM pipeline that reads the seed, address, and downloaded county response.
- Generates JavaScript scripts (`ownerMapping.js`, `structureMapping.js`, `layoutMapping.js`, `utilityMapping.js`, `data_extractor.js`) plus a manifest.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `property_seed.json`, `unnormalized_address.json`, and one HTML or JSON county response file at the root. Optionally include a `scripts/` directory with prior attempts and CSVs containing previous errors.

**Output**

```
generated-scripts.zip
├── data_extractor.js
├── ownerMapping.js
├── structureMapping.js
├── utilityMapping.js
├── layoutMapping.js
└── manifest.json
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for generated scripts. | `generated-scripts.zip` |
| `-d, --data-dictionary <path>` | Optional reference file fed to the generator. | None |

_Approximate duration: up to one hour per county. The process consumes OpenAI API credits._

## Produce the County Dataset

Run `transform` again, this time supplying both the prepared site ZIP and the generated scripts.

```bash
elephant-cli transform \
  --input-zip prepared-site.zip \
  --scripts-zip generated-scripts.zip \
  --output-zip transformed-data.zip
```

**What it does**
- Normalizes inputs to `input.html`/`input.json`, `property_seed.json`, and `unnormalized_address.json` in a temporary workspace.
- Executes the generated scripts, adding `source_http_request` metadata to every datagroup.
- Builds county relationships and fact-sheet artifacts, then bundles the results.

**Inputs**
- `prepared-site.zip` (from the previous step).
- `generated-scripts.zip` (from the LLM pipeline or a hand-tuned bundle).

**Output**

```
transformed-data.zip
└── data/
    ├── property.json
    ├── *.json (cleaned datagroups named by schema CIDs)
    ├── relationship_*.json
    ├── fact_sheet.json
    └── *.html / media assets for the fact sheet
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input-zip <path>` | Prepared site ZIP with seed and source response. | Required |
| `--scripts-zip <path>` | ZIP of scripts to execute. | Required in scripts mode |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for the transformed county bundle. | `transformed-data.zip` |
| `--legacy-mode` | Use the legacy agent flow (not part of the standard pipeline). | `false` |

## Hash the County Dataset

Feed the transformed bundle to `hash` to compute content-addressed JSON and produce the submission CSV.

```bash
elephant-cli hash transformed-data.zip \
  --output-zip hashed-data.zip \
  --output-csv hash-results.csv
```

**What it does**
- Canonicalizes every JSON datagroup.
- Calculates IPFS-compatible multihash CIDs.
- Produces a CSV mapping property, datagroup, and data CIDs, ready for contract submission.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing a single property directory (such as `transformed-data.zip` from the previous step). The ZIP may contain either files directly or a `data/` folder; both are supported.

**Outputs**

```
hashed-data.zip
└── <property_cid>/
    ├── <data_cid>.json (canonicalized datagroups)
    └── *.html / media copied from the transform bundle

hash-results.csv
propertyCid,dataGroupCid,dataCid,filePath,uploadedAt,htmlLink
...
```

The CSV leaves `uploadedAt` empty (populated after IPFS upload) and populates `htmlLink` when fact-sheet media assets are present.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP containing canonicalized JSON (folder named by property CID). | `hashed-data.zip` |
| `-c, --output-csv <path>` | CSV file with hash results. | `hash-results.csv` |
| `--max-concurrent-tasks <number>` | Target concurrency for hashing (fallback determined automatically). | Auto |
| `--property-cid <cid>` | Override the property CID used for the output folder and CSV. | Seed CID or inferred value |

## Upload Datagroups to IPFS

Upload the hashed bundle to Pinata with the `upload` command. Provide a Pinata JWT via `--pinata-jwt` or `PINATA_JWT`.

```bash
export PINATA_JWT=eyJhbGciOi...
elephant-cli upload hashed-data.zip \
  --output-csv upload-results.csv
```

**What it does**
- Extracts the single property directory from the hashed ZIP.
- Uploads JSON datagroups (and HTML/image assets) to IPFS via Pinata.
- Writes a CSV in the same format as `hash-results.csv`, including upload timestamps and media links when available.

**Inputs**
- `hashed-data.zip` containing one property directory named by property CID.

**Outputs**
- IPFS CID for the JSON directory (printed in the CLI).
- Optional CID for media files when present.
- `upload-results.csv` mirroring the hash CSV headers with populated `uploadedAt` (ISO 8601) and `htmlLink` columns.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--pinata-jwt <jwt>` | Pinata authentication token (falls back to `PINATA_JWT`). | Required if env var absent |
| `-o, --output-csv <path>` | CSV summarizing uploaded datagroups. | `upload-results.csv` |

## Submit Hashes to the Contract

Finalize the workflow by submitting the uploaded hashes to the Elephant smart contract on Polygon.

```bash
elephant-cli submit-to-contract upload-results.csv \
  --keystore-json oracle-keystore.json \
  --keystore-password "your-strong-password" \
  --rpc-url https://polygon.llamarpc.com \
  --gas-price auto
```

Use the CSV generated by `upload` (preferred) or `hash` (if you operate your own uploader) as the input.

**What it does**
- Validates each row, batches submissions, and sends transactions to the Elephant contract.
- Optionally performs dry runs, centralized API submissions, or unsigned transaction export.
- Writes transaction IDs to a CSV for auditing.

**Inputs**
- CSV with headers `propertyCid,dataGroupCid,dataCid,filePath,uploadedAt,htmlLink`.
- Encrypted keystore JSON and password, or centralized API credentials.

**Outputs**
- On-chain transactions (unless `--dry-run` is used).
- Updated reports: `submit_errors.csv`, `submit_warnings.csv`, and a timestamped `transaction-ids-*.csv` (override with `--transaction-ids-csv`).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--keystore-json <path>` | Encrypted keystore file containing the oracle key. | Required unless using API mode |
| `--keystore-password <password>` | Password for decrypting the keystore (or set `ELEPHANT_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD`). | Required with keystore |
| `--rpc-url <url>` | Polygon RPC endpoint. | Env `RPC_URL` or Elephant default |
| `--contract-address <address>` | Submit contract address. | Env `SUBMIT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` or default |
| `--transaction-batch-size <number>` | Number of items per transaction. | `200` |
| `--gas-price <value>` | Gas price in gwei (`auto` or numeric string). | `30` |
| `--dry-run` | Validate and produce artifacts without sending transactions. | `false` |
| `--unsigned-transactions-json <path>` | File to store unsigned transactions (requires `--dry-run`). | None |
| `--from-address <address>` | Sender address to record in unsigned transactions. | None |
| `--domain <domain>` | Centralized submission API domain. | None |
| `--api-key <key>` | API key for centralized submission. | None |
| `--oracle-key-id <id>` | Oracle key identifier for centralized submission. | None |
| `--check-eligibility` | Verify consensus and prior submissions before sending. | `false` |
| `--transaction-ids-csv <path>` | Output CSV for transaction hashes. | `reports/transaction-ids-{timestamp}.csv` |

Complete these steps for each property, track generated artifacts, and retain keystore/password information securely. Running the commands in the order above delivers a full seed-to-contract submission for the Elephant Network.

## Utility Commands

These helpers support cross-checking hashes, translating identifiers, and auditing previously submitted payloads.

### Convert Hex Hashes to CID

```bash
elephant-cli hex-to-cid 0x1220e828d7cf579e7a7b2c60cffd66a4663b4857670f2ec16125cb22f1affc6c \
  --validate
```

**What it does**
- Validates an Ethereum-style `0x`-prefixed (or bare) 32-byte hex string.
- Converts the hash to a base32 CIDv1 using the raw codec and prints it to stdout.

**Input**
- One 32-byte hex hash (with or without `0x`).

**Output**
- CID string on stdout. With `--quiet`, emits the CID only; otherwise prefixes output with `CID:`.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-v, --validate` | Print confirmation that the hex input is valid before conversion. | `false` |
| `-q, --quiet` | Suppress labels and emit just the CID string. | `false` |

### Convert CID to Hex Hash

```bash
elephant-cli cid-to-hex bafkreicfajrgq6qicnclpbg4qolyhm6co74fcwrkm7n6dyx4qw5bpjvlfe \
  --validate
```

**What it does**
- Validates a CIDv1 string.
- Converts the CID into the 32-byte hex hash expected by on-chain contracts.

**Input**
- One CIDv1 string (multibase base32, usually beginning with `b`).

**Output**
- 32-byte hex hash on stdout (prefixed with `Hex:` unless `--quiet` is used).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-v, --validate` | Print confirmation that the CID input is valid before conversion. | `false` |
| `-q, --quiet` | Suppress labels and emit just the hex string. | `false` |

### Fetch Data from IPFS or Transactions

```bash
elephant-cli fetch-data bafkreicfajrgq6qicnclpbg4qolyhm6co74fcwrkm7n6dyx4qw5bpjvlfe \
  --output-zip fetched-data.zip \
  --gateway https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs
```

You can also supply a Polygon transaction hash (32-byte hex). When a transaction is provided, the CLI resolves its logged dataset hashes via the configured RPC endpoint before downloading referenced CIDs.

**What it does**
- Traverses an IPFS datagroup tree starting from a CID, following relationship links, and saves the resolved JSON to a ZIP archive.
- For transaction hashes, reads on-chain submissions, converts each hex hash back into CID form, and downloads the associated data graph.
- Rewrites CID links inside the fetched JSON to point at the relative paths inside the ZIP for easier offline inspection.

**Inputs**
- Either an IPFS CID or a 32-byte transaction hash. Provide one identifier per invocation.

**Outputs**

```
fetched-data.zip
└── <property_folder>/
    ├── *.json (datagroups named by schema CID when known)
    └── relationship_*.json (local links between files)
```

When media assets are referenced and accessible through the gateway, they are downloaded into sibling files in the same property folder.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-g, --gateway <url>` | IPFS gateway used for downloads (set `IPFS_GATEWAY` to override globally). | `https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs` |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP that will hold the fetched dataset. | `fetched-data.zip` |
| `-r, --rpc-url <url>` | Polygon RPC endpoint used when resolving transaction hashes (falls back to `RPC_URL`). | Elephant default |

Set `--gateway` to match the provider used during uploads if you need consistent access controls. Provide an RPC endpoint with access to Elephant submissions when fetching by transaction hash.

Commit message:

feat(generate-transform): add script repair option (#149)

README.md, after:

# Elephant Network CLI

This guide walks Elephant Network oracles through the complete workflow of transforming county data and submitting proofs on-chain using the Elephant CLI.

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Create an Encrypted Keystore](#create-an-encrypted-keystore)
- [Transform Input Requirements](#transform-input-requirements)
- [Build the Seed Bundle](#build-the-seed-bundle)
- [Fetch Current Source Content](#fetch-current-source-content)
- [Generate Transformation Scripts](#generate-transformation-scripts)
- [Produce the County Dataset](#produce-the-county-dataset)
- [Hash the County Dataset](#hash-the-county-dataset)
- [Upload Datagroups to IPFS](#upload-datagroups-to-ipfs)
- [Submit Hashes to the Contract](#submit-hashes-to-the-contract)
- [Utility Commands](#utility-commands)

## Overview

The Elephant CLI enables oracles to:
- Derive canonical seed files from jurisdiction sourcing metadata (`transform`).
- Download the live county response for reproducible processing (`prepare`).
- Generate and execute extraction scripts for county-specific transformations (`generate-transform` and `transform`).
- Canonicalize outputs, upload to IPFS, and record submissions on the Polygon network (`hash`, `upload`, `submit-to-contract`).

Each section below explains what a command does, the inputs it expects, the resulting artifacts, available options, and a runnable example.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20.0 or later (includes `npm`).
- Ability to create and extract ZIP archives (`zip`/`unzip`).
- Access to a Polygon RPC endpoint (e.g., Alchemy, Infura, or internal infrastructure).
- Oracle private key to be stored in an encrypted keystore file.
- Pinata JWT (`PINATA_JWT`) for IPFS uploads.
- OpenAI API key (`OPENAI_API_KEY`) for script generation.
- Stable network connection and sufficient disk space for ZIP artifacts.

## Installation

Install once and reuse:

```bash
npm install -g @elephant-xyz/cli
```

Or run ad-hoc without installing globally:

```bash
npx @elephant-xyz/cli --help
```

## Create an Encrypted Keystore

Use `create-keystore` to encrypt your Polygon private key for later use with `submit-to-contract`.

```bash
elephant-cli create-keystore \
  --private-key 0xYOUR_PRIVATE_KEY \
  --password "your-strong-password" \
  --output oracle-keystore.json
```

**What it does**
- Encrypts the supplied private key with the provided password.
- Writes an encrypted JSON keystore to disk and prints the derived address.

**Inputs**
- Private key (with or without `0x`).
- Password (minimum 8 characters).

**Output**
- `oracle-keystore.json` (or the path provided via `--output`).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-k, --private-key <key>` | Private key to encrypt. | Required |
| `-p, --password <password>` | Password used for encryption. | Required |
| `-o, --output <path>` | Destination file for the keystore JSON. | `keystore.json` |
| `-f, --force` | Overwrite the output file if it already exists. | `false` |

## Transform Input Requirements

The first `transform` run produces canonical seed files from a county sourcing list. Supply a ZIP that contains a single `seed.csv` at its top level:

```
seed-input.zip
└── seed.csv
```

`seed.csv` must include the following headers (one property per row):

| Column | Required | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `parcel_id` | ✅ | Parcel identifier used across Elephant datasets. |
| `address` | ✅ | Human-readable street address for logging and fact sheets. |
| `method` | ✅ | HTTP method (`GET` or `POST`). |
| `url` | ✅ | Base URL to request during `prepare`. |
| `multiValueQueryString` | ➖ | JSON string mapping query keys to string arrays (e.g. `{"parcel":["0745"]}`). |
| `source_identifier` | ✅ | Stable identifier for the property request (becomes the file stem in later steps). |
| `county` | ✅ | County name (case-insensitive; transformed to title case). |
| `json` | ➖ | JSON request body (stringified). Mutually exclusive with `body`. |
| `body` | ➖ | Raw request payload string. Mutually exclusive with `json`. |
| `headers` | ➖ | JSON string of HTTP headers (e.g. `{"content-type":"application/json"}`). |

Only one of `json` or `body` may be present in a row. Leave optional columns blank when not needed.

Example row:

```
parcel_id,address,method,url,multiValueQueryString,source_identifier,county,json
074527L1060260060,123 Example Ave,GET,https://county.example.com/search,"{\"parcel\":[\"074527L1060260060\"]}",ALACHUA-074527L1060260060,Alachua,
```

## Build the Seed Bundle

Run `transform` against the seed ZIP to derive the foundational seed files.

```bash
elephant-cli transform \
  --input-zip seed-input.zip \
  --output-zip seed-bundle.zip
```

**What it does**
- Parses `seed.csv` and constructs canonical `property_seed.json`, `unnormalized_address.json`, and relationship scaffolding.
- Generates a seed datagroup JSON (named by the Seed schema CID) and related fact-sheet relationships.
- Packages everything inside a top-level `data/` directory.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `seed.csv` at the root.

**Output**

```
seed-bundle.zip
└── data/
    ├── <seed_schema_cid>.json
    ├── property_seed.json
    ├── relationship_property_to_address.json
    ├── unnormalized_address.json
    └── relationship_unnormalized_address_to_fact_sheet.json
```

For the next step, extract `data/property_seed.json` and `data/unnormalized_address.json` into a new working folder (no subdirectories) and zip them as `prepare-input.zip`.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input-zip <path>` | Seed ZIP containing `seed.csv`. | Required |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for generated seed assets. | `transformed-data.zip` |
| `--scripts-zip <path>` | When provided, runs county scripts instead of seed mode. | None |
| `--legacy-mode` | Use the legacy AI workflow (not used in modern oracle flow). | `false` |

## Fetch Current Source Content

Package the extracted seed files into a ZIP that looks like this:

```
prepare-input.zip
├── property_seed.json
└── unnormalized_address.json
```

Run `prepare` to reproduce the county response referenced by the seed.

```bash
elephant-cli prepare prepare-input.zip --output-zip prepared-site.zip
```

**What it does**
- Reads `source_http_request` from `property_seed.json`.
- Performs the HTTP request (direct fetch by default, optional headless browser for GET endpoints).
- Writes the response to `<request_identifier>.html` or `<request_identifier>.json` alongside the seed files.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `property_seed.json` and `unnormalized_address.json` at the top level.

**Output**

```
prepared-site.zip
├── property_seed.json
├── unnormalized_address.json
└── <request_identifier>.html | <request_identifier>.json
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP containing the fetched response. | Required |
| `--use-browser` | Fetch GET requests with a headless Chromium browser (needed for dynamic sites). | `false` |
| `--no-continue` | Skip auto-clicking "Continue" modals when browser mode is active. | `false` |
| `--no-fast` | Disable the fast browser profile (enables full asset loading). | `false` |

## Generate Transformation Scripts

Provide the prepared site bundle to `generate-transform` to produce county-specific extraction scripts. Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` beforehand.

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-live...
elephant-cli generate-transform prepared-site.zip \
  --output-zip generated-scripts.zip
```

**What it does**
- Runs an LLM pipeline that reads the seed, address, and downloaded county response.
- Generates JavaScript scripts (`ownerMapping.js`, `structureMapping.js`, `layoutMapping.js`, `utilityMapping.js`, `data_extractor.js`) plus a manifest.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing `property_seed.json`, `unnormalized_address.json`, and one HTML or JSON county response file at the root. Optionally include a `scripts/` directory with prior attempts and CSVs containing previous errors.

**Output**

```
generated-scripts.zip
├── data_extractor.js
├── ownerMapping.js
├── structureMapping.js
├── utilityMapping.js
├── layoutMapping.js
└── manifest.json
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for generated scripts or repaired scripts. | `generated-scripts.zip` |
| `-d, --data-dictionary <path>` | Optional reference file fed to the generator. | None |
| `--scripts-zip <path>` | Existing scripts bundle (must contain `data_extractor.js`) for automatic repair. | None |
| `-e, --error <string>` | JSON error payload captured from a failed transform run. | None |

**Error repair flow**
- Supply both `--scripts-zip` and `--error` to trigger remediation instead of a fresh generation.
- The CLI extracts `data_extractor.js`, parses the error payload (`{"type":"error","message":"Unknown enum value X.","path":"Class.property"}`), and fetches the schema for the failing property.
- GPT-5 receives the current script, the error, and the schema fragment, rewrites `data_extractor.js`, and saves the updated archive to `--output-zip`.
- Only the extraction script is modified; other files remain untouched. The repaired ZIP can be reused with the `transform` command.

_Approximate duration: up to one hour per county. The process consumes OpenAI API credits._

## Produce the County Dataset

Run `transform` again, this time supplying both the prepared site ZIP and the generated scripts.

```bash
elephant-cli transform \
  --input-zip prepared-site.zip \
  --scripts-zip generated-scripts.zip \
  --output-zip transformed-data.zip
```

**What it does**
- Normalizes inputs to `input.html`/`input.json`, `property_seed.json`, and `unnormalized_address.json` in a temporary workspace.
- Executes the generated scripts, adding `source_http_request` metadata to every datagroup.
- Builds county relationships and fact-sheet artifacts, then bundles the results.

**Inputs**
- `prepared-site.zip` (from the previous step).
- `generated-scripts.zip` (from the LLM pipeline or a hand-tuned bundle).

**Output**

```
transformed-data.zip
└── data/
    ├── property.json
    ├── *.json (cleaned datagroups named by schema CIDs)
    ├── relationship_*.json
    ├── fact_sheet.json
    └── *.html / media assets for the fact sheet
```

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--input-zip <path>` | Prepared site ZIP with seed and source response. | Required |
| `--scripts-zip <path>` | ZIP of scripts to execute. | Required in scripts mode |
| `--output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP for the transformed county bundle. | `transformed-data.zip` |
| `--legacy-mode` | Use the legacy agent flow (not part of the standard pipeline). | `false` |

## Hash the County Dataset

Feed the transformed bundle to `hash` to compute content-addressed JSON and produce the submission CSV.

```bash
elephant-cli hash transformed-data.zip \
  --output-zip hashed-data.zip \
  --output-csv hash-results.csv
```

**What it does**
- Canonicalizes every JSON datagroup.
- Calculates IPFS-compatible multihash CIDs.
- Produces a CSV mapping property, datagroup, and data CIDs, ready for contract submission.

**Inputs**
- ZIP containing a single property directory (such as `transformed-data.zip` from the previous step). The ZIP may contain either files directly or a `data/` folder; both are supported.

**Outputs**

```
hashed-data.zip
└── <property_cid>/
    ├── <data_cid>.json (canonicalized datagroups)
    └── *.html / media copied from the transform bundle

hash-results.csv
propertyCid,dataGroupCid,dataCid,filePath,uploadedAt,htmlLink
...
```

The CSV leaves `uploadedAt` empty (populated after IPFS upload) and populates `htmlLink` when fact-sheet media assets are present.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP containing canonicalized JSON (folder named by property CID). | `hashed-data.zip` |
| `-c, --output-csv <path>` | CSV file with hash results. | `hash-results.csv` |
| `--max-concurrent-tasks <number>` | Target concurrency for hashing (fallback determined automatically). | Auto |
| `--property-cid <cid>` | Override the property CID used for the output folder and CSV. | Seed CID or inferred value |

## Upload Datagroups to IPFS

Upload the hashed bundle to Pinata with the `upload` command. Provide a Pinata JWT via `--pinata-jwt` or `PINATA_JWT`.

```bash
export PINATA_JWT=eyJhbGciOi...
elephant-cli upload hashed-data.zip \
  --output-csv upload-results.csv
```

**What it does**
- Extracts the single property directory from the hashed ZIP.
- Uploads JSON datagroups (and HTML/image assets) to IPFS via Pinata.
- Writes a CSV in the same format as `hash-results.csv`, including upload timestamps and media links when available.

**Inputs**
- `hashed-data.zip` containing one property directory named by property CID.

**Outputs**
- IPFS CID for the JSON directory (printed in the CLI).
- Optional CID for media files when present.
- `upload-results.csv` mirroring the hash CSV headers with populated `uploadedAt` (ISO 8601) and `htmlLink` columns.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--pinata-jwt <jwt>` | Pinata authentication token (falls back to `PINATA_JWT`). | Required if env var absent |
| `-o, --output-csv <path>` | CSV summarizing uploaded datagroups. | `upload-results.csv` |

## Submit Hashes to the Contract

Finalize the workflow by submitting the uploaded hashes to the Elephant smart contract on Polygon.

```bash
elephant-cli submit-to-contract upload-results.csv \
  --keystore-json oracle-keystore.json \
  --keystore-password "your-strong-password" \
  --rpc-url https://polygon.llamarpc.com \
  --gas-price auto
```

Use the CSV generated by `upload` (preferred) or `hash` (if you operate your own uploader) as the input.

**What it does**
- Validates each row, batches submissions, and sends transactions to the Elephant contract.
- Optionally performs dry runs, centralized API submissions, or unsigned transaction export.
- Writes transaction IDs to a CSV for auditing.

**Inputs**
- CSV with headers `propertyCid,dataGroupCid,dataCid,filePath,uploadedAt,htmlLink`.
- Encrypted keystore JSON and password, or centralized API credentials.

**Outputs**
- On-chain transactions (unless `--dry-run` is used).
- Updated reports: `submit_errors.csv`, `submit_warnings.csv`, and a timestamped `transaction-ids-*.csv` (override with `--transaction-ids-csv`).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--keystore-json <path>` | Encrypted keystore file containing the oracle key. | Required unless using API mode |
| `--keystore-password <password>` | Password for decrypting the keystore (or set `ELEPHANT_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD`). | Required with keystore |
| `--rpc-url <url>` | Polygon RPC endpoint. | Env `RPC_URL` or Elephant default |
| `--contract-address <address>` | Submit contract address. | Env `SUBMIT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` or default |
| `--transaction-batch-size <number>` | Number of items per transaction. | `200` |
| `--gas-price <value>` | Gas price in gwei (`auto` or numeric string). | `30` |
| `--dry-run` | Validate and produce artifacts without sending transactions. | `false` |
| `--unsigned-transactions-json <path>` | File to store unsigned transactions (requires `--dry-run`). | None |
| `--from-address <address>` | Sender address to record in unsigned transactions. | None |
| `--domain <domain>` | Centralized submission API domain. | None |
| `--api-key <key>` | API key for centralized submission. | None |
| `--oracle-key-id <id>` | Oracle key identifier for centralized submission. | None |
| `--check-eligibility` | Verify consensus and prior submissions before sending. | `false` |
| `--transaction-ids-csv <path>` | Output CSV for transaction hashes. | `reports/transaction-ids-{timestamp}.csv` |

Complete these steps for each property, track generated artifacts, and retain keystore/password information securely. Running the commands in the order above delivers a full seed-to-contract submission for the Elephant Network.

## Utility Commands

These helpers support cross-checking hashes, translating identifiers, and auditing previously submitted payloads.

### Convert Hex Hashes to CID

```bash
elephant-cli hex-to-cid 0x1220e828d7cf579e7a7b2c60cffd66a4663b4857670f2ec16125cb22f1affc6c \
  --validate
```

**What it does**
- Validates an Ethereum-style `0x`-prefixed (or bare) 32-byte hex string.
- Converts the hash to a base32 CIDv1 using the raw codec and prints it to stdout.

**Input**
- One 32-byte hex hash (with or without `0x`).

**Output**
- CID string on stdout. With `--quiet`, emits the CID only; otherwise prefixes output with `CID:`.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-v, --validate` | Print confirmation that the hex input is valid before conversion. | `false` |
| `-q, --quiet` | Suppress labels and emit just the CID string. | `false` |

### Convert CID to Hex Hash

```bash
elephant-cli cid-to-hex bafkreicfajrgq6qicnclpbg4qolyhm6co74fcwrkm7n6dyx4qw5bpjvlfe \
  --validate
```

**What it does**
- Validates a CIDv1 string.
- Converts the CID into the 32-byte hex hash expected by on-chain contracts.

**Input**
- One CIDv1 string (multibase base32, usually beginning with `b`).

**Output**
- 32-byte hex hash on stdout (prefixed with `Hex:` unless `--quiet` is used).

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-v, --validate` | Print confirmation that the CID input is valid before conversion. | `false` |
| `-q, --quiet` | Suppress labels and emit just the hex string. | `false` |

### Fetch Data from IPFS or Transactions

```bash
elephant-cli fetch-data bafkreicfajrgq6qicnclpbg4qolyhm6co74fcwrkm7n6dyx4qw5bpjvlfe \
  --output-zip fetched-data.zip \
  --gateway https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs
```

You can also supply a Polygon transaction hash (32-byte hex). When a transaction is provided, the CLI resolves its logged dataset hashes via the configured RPC endpoint before downloading referenced CIDs.

**What it does**
- Traverses an IPFS datagroup tree starting from a CID, following relationship links, and saves the resolved JSON to a ZIP archive.
- For transaction hashes, reads on-chain submissions, converts each hex hash back into CID form, and downloads the associated data graph.
- Rewrites CID links inside the fetched JSON to point at the relative paths inside the ZIP for easier offline inspection.

**Inputs**
- Either an IPFS CID or a 32-byte transaction hash. Provide one identifier per invocation.

**Outputs**

```
fetched-data.zip
└── <property_folder>/
    ├── *.json (datagroups named by schema CID when known)
    └── relationship_*.json (local links between files)
```

When media assets are referenced and accessible through the gateway, they are downloaded into sibling files in the same property folder.

**Options**

| Option | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `-g, --gateway <url>` | IPFS gateway used for downloads (set `IPFS_GATEWAY` to override globally). | `https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs` |
| `-o, --output-zip <path>` | Destination ZIP that will hold the fetched dataset. | `fetched-data.zip` |
| `-r, --rpc-url <url>` | Polygon RPC endpoint used when resolving transaction hashes (falls back to `RPC_URL`). | Elephant default |

Set `--gateway` to match the provider used during uploads if you need consistent access controls. Provide an RPC endpoint with access to Elephant submissions when fetching by transaction hash.
